Add information on using muspinsim-gen (#57)
muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim: docs/docs/tools.md

# Tools

## `muspinsim-gen`

> `muspinsim-gen` is a command line tool made to help construct an input file given a cell structure file as input. At the moment it can take an input structure (defined in a file supported by `ase` e.g. a .cell or .cif), find a requested number of nearest neighbour atoms to the muon, and then output the muspinsim config defining these atoms and the dipolar interactions with the muon. It can also be linked to a file containing output defining EFG tensors from `GIPAW` in order to include quadrupole interactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`muspinsim-gen` is a command line tool made to help construct an input file given a cell structure file as input. At the moment it can take an input structure (defined in a file supported by `ase` e.g. a .cell or .cif), find a requested number of nearest neighbour atoms to the muon, and then output the muspinsim config defining these atoms and the dipolar interactions with the muon. It can also (optionally) take a file containing output defining EFG tensors from `GIPAW` in order to include quadrupole interactions.
```
Just for clarity and avoid any confusion with actally linking file locations. We describe `tak[ing] an input structure...` so think it's best to use the same langauge throughout.

The available command line options can be found by invoking `muspinsim-gen --help`.

### Example
Taking a cell file named `V3Si.cell` you may use
```bash
muspinsim-gen ./V3Si.cell 6 --dipolar --out V3Si.in
```

!!! note
    The muon is assumed to be defined in the structure as `H`, this can be modified by the command line option `--muon_symbol MUON_SYMBOL`.

This takes the cell file, then iteratively expands the structure outwards to find the closest 6 atoms to the muon. Then it computes vectors between each of the found atoms and the muon before outputting the muspinsim config into the file `V3Si.in` which looks like

```plaintext
spins
    mu V V V V Si Si
dipolar 1 2
    5.8867821595143255e-06 -1.2410298376667999 1.2417097773151198
dipolar 1 3
    -1.2410421175142399 1.7637655919999997e-05 -1.2417029559655202
dipolar 1 4
    1.2410539563139198 1.7614965359999998e-05 -1.2417021305964
dipolar 1 5
    5.8811095198230134e-06 1.2410652462856788 1.2417072770990398
dipolar 1 6
    5.84849183971059e-06 -2.377947784716 -1.18857807822936
dipolar 1 7
    -2.37795896407128 1.786314336e-05 1.18858129319808
```

> In this case, we may also decide to ignore the silicon atoms as they have a spin of 0. This can be achieved by using `--ignore_symbol Si`. Additional ignored symbols can be added by repeating this option. To add quadrupole interactions you may use `--quadrupolar GIPAW_FILEPATH`. This file should contain the output of GIPAW from calculating the EFG tensors on the same structure. These will then be matched to the found atoms and will be output into the file.

Reviewer: My understanding was that Si would be ignored **because** it has zero spin:
https://github.com/muon-spectroscopy-computational-project/muspinsim/blob/6f569294bad32152308a86b7b6fbc12372d2f18c/muspinsim/tools/generator.py#L111-L117

Why does the documentation say we need to use `--ignore_symbol` to achieve this? Is this a result of the troubles we're having with the imported libraries providing the "wrong" isotopes? Or because we're assuming that (because this is a library for spin interactions) that the Si is an uncommon isotope with spin rather than abundant zero spin implicitly, requiring the user to mark it with `--ignore_symbol`?

Author: Yes this is due to the data in soprano. It currently only includes 29Si so it returns 1/2 for its spin. I could add a note on this if you think its worth it, I haven't yet only because I don't say it tries to filter them out either. This would only be fixed once soprano is updated/mendeleev is used depending on whether the same logic will apply in soprano itself.

Reviewer: It's tricky. In princple we should be explicit with the documentation, even (especially) in the case where the current behaviour is bugged/unexpected (and given we'll be releasing this as 2.1.0). Ignoring what the code tries/fails to do, what actually happens is we select an isotope of the atom with a given spin (the next most abundant?) unless `--ignore_symbol Si` is used (presumably this applies to all elements, or is it just Si?). I think we should say that this is what we're doing, and that's why `--ignore_symbol Si` serves a purpose. So something like:
```suggestion
By default, MuSpinSim assumes that the atoms present have a non-zero spin (in this case, 29Si with a spin of 1/2). To avoid interactions between the muon and Si (effectively treating it as the more abundant, spin-zero 28Si) we can use `--ignore_symbol Si`. Additional ignored symbols can be added by repeating this option. To add quadrupole interactions you may use `--quadrupolar GIPAW_FILEPATH`. This file should contain the output of GIPAW from calculating the EFG tensors on the same structure. These will then be matched to the found atoms and will be output into the file.
```
Assuming that that's an accurate description of the situation.

Author: Yes I think that's a good way of putting it. It will apply to all elements.
